Discussion: Improved management of uptime kuma (#5728)
louislam/uptime-kuma: .github/REVIEW_GUIDELINES.md

# Uptime Kuma Review Guidelines

> **Note:** These review guidelines are a work in progress, and are frequently

Reviewer: lets use githubs note syntax here

```suggestion
> [!NOTE]
> These review guidelines are a work in progress, and are frequently
```

Author: This has been updated.

updated and improved, so please check back frequently for the latest version.

## Preparing for a PR Review

### Read the PR description carefully

Make sure you understand what the PR is trying to solve or implement. This could
be a bug fix, a new feature, or a refactor.

### Check the linked issues

If the PR has a linked issue, read it to better understand the context and the
reason for the change.

### Check the test coverage

Make sure relevant tests have been added or modified. If the PR adds new
functionality, there should be tests covering the change.

## General Review

### Code formatting and style

> Check if the code adheres to the agreed style guidelines of the project (e.g.,
> PEP8 for Python, Airbnb style for JavaScript, etc.). Make sure there are no
> unused imports, variables, or code fragments in the PR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check if the code adheres to the style guidelines of the project.
Make sure there are no unused imports, variables, `console.log` for debugging in the PR.
```

- [Project Style](../CONTRIBUTING.md#project-styles)
- [Coding Style](../CONTRIBUTING.md#coding-styles)

### Readability and maintainability

Is the code understandable to other developers? Ensure that complex parts are

> well-documented with comments. Are variables and functions clearly named, and

Reviewer: I would prefer better phrasing here.
Saying "complex parts well documented" inevitably leads to the chatgpt-style that every line has a comment.

Something like "comments should explain the WHY, but the HOW should be explained by good naming" is hard to convey though.

Author: Or

Is the code easy to understand for other developers? Ensure that complex
sections are documented with comments that explain _why_ something is done,
rather than _how_, which should be conveyed through clear and descriptive naming
conventions. Are variables and functions named intuitively, and does the code
adhere to a consistent naming convention? Additionally, consider the
maintainability of the code:

Author: I have chosen the first option. If you would like something else, please let me know.

dependencies? If so, is there a migration plan in place?

## Logging and Error Handling

### Proper error handling

- Are errors properly caught and handled instead of being silently ignored?
- Are exceptions used appropriately?

### Logging

- Is sufficient logging included for debugging and monitoring?
- Is there excessive logging that could affect performance?

## Accessibility (for UI-related changes)

If the PR affects the user interface, ensure that it meets accessibility
standards:

- Can users navigate using only the keyboard?
- Are screen readers supported?
- Is there proper color contrast for readability?
- Are there **WCAG** (Web Content Accessibility Guidelines) compliance issues?
- Use tools like **Axe** or **Lighthouse** to evaluate accessibility.

## Providing Feedback

### Constructive feedback

Provide clear, constructive feedback on what is good and what can be improved.
If improvements are needed, be specific about what should change.

### Clarity and collaboration

Ensure your feedback is friendly and open, so the team member who submitted the
PR feels supported and motivated to make improvements.

> ## Go/No-Go Decision ━ For Maintainers only

Reviewer: Please hide all Maintainers only sections using `<details>` blocks.
Currently, there is a lot of context there that is not relevant for most and too much text can be quite intimidating

Author: This has been updated.
